# cs360project

# Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?
The purpose of the event planner app I made was to provide a simple to use UI for people to plan future events. The user is able to login or register into the app if their information isn't in the database and then after providing the event name, date, and time the user can display or delete the event from the database. 

# What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?
In order for a user to login/register both a login and registration screen were made. I think the design of the 2 screens were successful since I tried to keep in mind how other apps login screens look up and the layout is very simplistic. The follow up screen is the main screen where a user can add or delete events. The delete button is very apparent and a floating action button was implemented to make adding events easy to do. The event information screens were also made to accept the event name, date, and time. The first screen just features an edittext for the user to submit the name then a submit button to move on. The event date screen has a datepicker while the event time screen has a timepicker to allow a user ease at adding the date and time of an event. There is also an SMS screen right before the user is sent back to the main event screen that asks a user for permission to send SMS notifications and accepts input for a phone number. This was another way to remind a user of an upcoming event and allows a user to grant or dismiss permission to do so.

# How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those be applied in the future?
While coding this app I did a ton of incremental developing and testing. This was very useful since whenever I got stuck trying to fix a defect it made it easier to pinpoint where the problem was rather then test everything all at once. This method of development was very useful since right after making this app I made a tic tac toe app and made sure to do unit testing for the game logic and was able to sort out any problems.

# How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important and what did it reveal?
I used the Android Emulator very frequently. This allowed me to see in real time what all the changes to the UI and where exactly any crashes would happen. Another way of testing to make sure my code was functional was debugging. This definitely helped me to realize when I had a NullPointerException that I needed to change the way I initialize some of my variables in my classes and led to my program working much better.

# Considering the full app design and development process, from initial planning to finalization, where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?
Considering I needed to use a grid layout to develop the main screen to display events I realized eventually that my initial design made it impossible to display the information. In order to bypass this I decided to make the widget that displays the event information a button that upon clicking retrieves the event information from the database and dispalys the contents.

# In what specific component from your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?
Personally I feel like creating the database for the login and events was the most successful aspect of the app. It was nice having prior knowledge of SQL to help me create an SQLite database but I've never done it alongside Java code so I needed to figure out how to mesh the two together. It was also a challenge trying to allow for reading, adding, and deleting from the database and took me a while to wrap it around my head. I think this demonstrates how even through frustration and having a time limit I'm willing to tackle a problem until the end. 
